.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. alias::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Given a set of peaks, and given lattice parameters
(:math:`a,b,c,alpha,beta,gamma`), this algorithm will find the UB
matrix, that best fits the data. The algorithm searches over a large
range of possible orientations for the orientation for which the rotated
B matrix best fits the data. The search for the best orientation
involves several steps.

During the first step, a reduced set of peaks typically at lower \|Q\|
are used, since it is easier to index peaks at low \|Q\|. Specifically,
if there are at least 5 peaks, the peaks are shifted to be centered at
the strongest peaks and then sorted in order of increasing distance from
the strongest peak. If there are fewer than 5 peaks the list is just
sorted in order of increasing \|Q\|. Only peaks from the initial portion
of this sorted list are used in the first step. The number of peaks from
this list to be used initially is specified by the user with the
parameter NumInitial. The search first finds a list of possible
orientations for which the UB matrix will index the maximum number of
peaks from the initial set of peaks to within the specified tolerance on
h,k,l values. Subsequently, only the UB matrix that indexes that maximum
number of peaks with the minimum distance between the calculated h,k,l
values and integers is kept and passed on to the second step.

During the second step, additional peaks are gradually added to the
initial list of peaks. Each time peaks are added to the list, the subset
of peaks from the new list that are indexed within the specified
tolerance on k,k,l are used in a least squares calculation to optimize
the UB matrix to best index those peaks. The process of gradually adding
more peaks from the sorted list and optimizing the UB based on the peaks
that are indexed, continues until all peaks have been added to the list.
Finally, one last optimization of the UB matrix is carried out using the
full list of peaks.

.. algm_categories::
